Add documentation for CA1864. (#36059)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1864.md

---
title: "CA1864: Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryAdd(TKey, TValue)' method"
description: "Learn about code analyzer rule CA1864 - Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryAdd(TKey, TValue)' method"
ms.date: 06/30/2023
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
 - CA1864
 - PreferDictionaryTryMethodsOverContainsKeyGuardAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
 - CA1864
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
---

# CA1864: Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryAdd(TKey, TValue)' method

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- |----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1864                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

> <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> is guarded by on a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> is guarded by a <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> call.
```

## Rule description

> Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> perform a lookup of the value. <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> also throws an exception if the key is already present in the dictionary. It is more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> which will return a `bool` indicating if the value was added or not. It will not override the key's value if the key is already present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> perform a lookup, which is redundant. <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> also throws an exception if the key is already present in the dictionary. It's more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, which returns a Boolean value that indicates if the value was added or not. `TryAdd` doesn't override the key's value if the key is already present.
```

> Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> perform a lookup, which is redundant. <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> also throws an exception if the key is already present in the dictionary. It's more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>, which returns a Boolean value that indicates if the value was added or not. `TryAdd` doesn't override the key's value if the key is already present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> perform a lookup, which is redundant. <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> also throws an exception if the key is already present in the dictionary. It's more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>, which returns a Boolean value that indicates if the value was added or not. `TryAdd` doesn't overwrite the key's value if the key is already present.
```

## How to fix violations

> Replace a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> followed by <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> with a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.ContainsKey(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> that's followed by a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> with a single call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.TryAdd(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
```

## Example

The following code snippet shows a violation of CA1864:

```csharp
void Run(IDictionary<int, string> dictionary)
{
    if(!dictionary.ContainsKey(2)) {
        dictionary.Add(2, "Hello World");
    }
}
```

```vb
Sub Run(dictionary As IDictionary(Of Integer, String))
    If Not dictionary.ContainsKey(2) Then
        dictionary.Add(2, "Hello World")
    End If
End Sub
```

The following code snippet fixes the violation:

```csharp
void Run(IDictionary<int, string> dictionary)
{
    dictionary.TryAdd(2, "Hello World");
}
```

```vb
Sub Run(dictionary As IDictionary(Of Integer, String))
    dictionary.TryAdd(2, "Hello World")
End Sub
```

## When to suppress warnings

> It's safe to suppress this warning if performance isn't a concern and when the exception potentially thrown by <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> is caught.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's safe to suppress this warning if performance isn't a concern and if you handle the exception that might be thrown by <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
```
